Title: (Pierce County) Replication of Diener E., Ng W., Harter J., & Arora R. (2010). for Collaborative Replications and Education Project
Description: Students from Pacific Lutheran University are conducting a preliminary study to replicate the findings of Diener, Arora, Harter, &amp; Ng (2010), a study on the impact of wealth and happiness on subject well-being. Diener, Weiting, Harter, and Rashka (2010) conducted a study to explore the association between general well-being and income levels. Despite the general agreement on the presence of a link between income and happiness, there is still inconsistency in findings due to the extreme focus on developed economies (Graham &amp; Pettinato, 2002). The need for more studies is one of the reasons why replication is so imperative.The purpose of our replication is to increase reliability. Replication will determine how well the study was run, as well as the extent to which the results from the previous study can be generalized and applied to other settings. In the case of our replication, we are looking at how well Diener’s results can be applied to a specific county in the United States, instead of looking at it from a world perspective. 
Contributors: Hale Gervais, Cody James Hatton, Jon Grahe
Tags: CREP, Wealth, Happiness, Well being

(Pierce County) Replication of Diener E., Ng W., Harter J., & Arora R. (2010). for Collaborative Replications and Education Project
Students from Pacific Lutheran University are conducting a preliminary study to replicate the findings of Diener, Arora, Harter, &amp; Ng (2010), a study on the impact of wealth and happiness on subject well-being. Diener, Weiting, Harter, and Rashka (2010) conducted a study to explore the association between general well-being and income levels. Despite the general agreement on the presence of a link between income and happiness, there is still inconsistency in findings due to the extreme focus on developed economies (Graham &amp; Pettinato, 2002). The need for more studies is one of the reasons why replication is so imperative.The purpose of our replication is to increase reliability. Replication will determine how well the study was run, as well as the extent to which the results from the previous study can be generalized and applied to other settings. In the case of our replication, we are looking at how well Diener’s results can be applied to a specific county in the United States, instead of looking at it from a world perspective. 
