Title: FAST: Flexible Adaptive and Synergistic Training (Pre-Registration)
Description: The primary objective of the Flexible Adaptive and Synergistic Training (FAST) effort is to develop and validate interventions designed to enhance reasoning and problem solving skills. The interventions of interest include cognitive training, focusing on core processes associated with executive function (EF), and low-current transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) to enhance the activity of the cortical substrate that is recruited by the EF training tasks. The FAST effort aims to validate these interventions in the context of a study involving 440 individuals.

This research is supported by the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Agency (IARPA) via contract# 2014-13121700007 isssued to Honeywell International. Members of the SHARP team include researchers representing Honeywell Labs, Harvard Medical School, Northeastern University, Oxford University, and SimCoach Games. 

The points noted here reflect the position of the research team and should not be interpreted as necessarily representing the official policies or endorsements, either expressed or implied, of IARPA, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, or the U.S. Government.
Contributors: Santosh Mathan
Tags: 

FAST: Flexible Adaptive and Synergistic Training (Pre-Registration)
The primary objective of the Flexible Adaptive and Synergistic Training (FAST) effort is to develop and validate interventions designed to enhance reasoning and problem solving skills. The interventions of interest include cognitive training, focusing on core processes associated with executive function (EF), and low-current transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) to enhance the activity of the cortical substrate that is recruited by the EF training tasks. The FAST effort aims to validate these interventions in the context of a study involving 440 individuals.

This research is supported by the Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Agency (IARPA) via contract# 2014-13121700007 isssued to Honeywell International. Members of the SHARP team include researchers representing Honeywell Labs, Harvard Medical School, Northeastern University, Oxford University, and SimCoach Games. 

The points noted here reflect the position of the research team and should not be interpreted as necessarily representing the official policies or endorsements, either expressed or implied, of IARPA, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, or the U.S. Government.
