Title: Many Labs 3: Participant Pool Edition
Description: Many Labs 3 is a crowdsourced project that will systematically evaluate time-of-semester effects across many participant pools.  The project team will create a single experimental protocol assessing 10 known effects within 30 minutes.  As many labs that can join will administer the same protocol across the academic semester.  The aggregate data will provide high-powered evidence whether time-of-semester moderates the detectability of effects.  Effects will be selected based on the lay theories of what is likely to be influenced by time of semester.
Contributors: Charles R. Ebersole, Olivia E. Atherton, Aimee L. Belanger, Hayley M Skulborstad, Reginald B. Adams, Jr., Jill Allen, Jonathan Britten Banks, Erica Baranski, Michael Jason Bernstein, Diane B. V. Bonfiglio, Leanne Boucher, Elizabeth R. Brown, Nancy I. Budiman, Athena H. Cairo, Colin Capaldi, Christopher R. Chartier, David C Cicero, Joanne M. Chung, Jennifer A. Coleman, John Conway, William E. Davis, Thierry Devos, Raelyne L. Dopko, Jon Grahe, Komi German, Joshua A. Hicks, Anthony Hermann, Brandon Humphrey, David J. Johnson, Jennifer Joy-Gaba, Hannah Juzeler, Richard A. Klein, Richard E. Lucas, Christopher J. N. Lustgraaf, Madhavi Menon, Mitchell Metzger, Jaclyn M. Moloney, Patrick J. Morse, Anthony J. Nelson, Radmila Prislin, Timothy Razza, Daniel E. Re, Nicholas Rule, Donald Sacco, Kyle Sauerberger, Megan Shultz, Jessi L. Smith, Karin Sobocko, Troy G. Steiner, Weylin Sternglanz, Konstantin Tskhay, Leigh Ann Vaughn, Zack van Allen, Ryan J. Walker, John Paul Wilson, James H. Wirth, Jessica Wortman, John M. Zelenski, Brian A. Nosek
Tags: social psychology, replication, semester effects, participant pools

Many Labs 3: Participant Pool Edition
Many Labs 3 is a crowdsourced project that will systematically evaluate time-of-semester effects across many participant pools.  The project team will create a single experimental protocol assessing 10 known effects within 30 minutes.  As many labs that can join will administer the same protocol across the academic semester.  The aggregate data will provide high-powered evidence whether time-of-semester moderates the detectability of effects.  Effects will be selected based on the lay theories of what is likely to be influenced by time of semester.
