Title: Narcissism and Emotional Contagion: Do Narcissists ‘‘Catch’’ the Emotions of Others?
Description: In this research, we investigated the association between narcissism and one central aspect of empathy, susceptibility to emotional contagion (the transfer of emotional states from one person to another). In a laboratory study (N1 = 101), we detected a negative link between narcissism and emotional contagion in response to experimentally induced positive affect. In an online study (N2 = 195), narcissism was negatively linked to experimentally induced emotional contagion regardless of valence. These findings indicate that individuals with high narcissism levels are apparently less prone to emotional contagion than individuals lower in narcissism. Hence, narcissists are less likely to ‘‘catch the emotions’’ of others. Furthermore, by comparing experimental assessments of susceptibility to emotional contagion with subjective self-reports, we were able to study self-insight. Across both samples, self-insight was generally low, and individual differences in self-insight were unrelated to narcissism.
Contributors: Anna Czarna
Tags: narcissism, emotion, emotional contagion, interpersonal transfer of emotions, mood, grandiose narcissism, personality

Narcissism and Emotional Contagion: Do Narcissists ‘‘Catch’’ the Emotions of Others?
In this research, we investigated the association between narcissism and one central aspect of empathy, susceptibility to emotional contagion (the transfer of emotional states from one person to another). In a laboratory study (N1 = 101), we detected a negative link between narcissism and emotional contagion in response to experimentally induced positive affect. In an online study (N2 = 195), narcissism was negatively linked to experimentally induced emotional contagion regardless of valence. These findings indicate that individuals with high narcissism levels are apparently less prone to emotional contagion than individuals lower in narcissism. Hence, narcissists are less likely to ‘‘catch the emotions’’ of others. Furthermore, by comparing experimental assessments of susceptibility to emotional contagion with subjective self-reports, we were able to study self-insight. Across both samples, self-insight was generally low, and individual differences in self-insight were unrelated to narcissism.
