Title: Nostalgia for Unity: Compensatory Control and the Meaning Maintenance Model
Description: Compensatory Control Theory (CCT) and the Meaning Maintenance Model (MMM) suggest pattern-seeking behavior in humans derives from an individual’s desire to explain articulate connections within themselves, between external experiences, and between the self and the external world (Heine, Proulx &amp; Vohs, 2006; Kay, Whitson, Gaucher &amp; Galinsky, 2009). Individuals seek fundamental stability in these connections as a way of understanding themselves and the external world (Heine, et al, 2006). Furthermore, humans have a unique inclination to perceive patterns to make sense of an otherwise stochastic environment and are susceptible to making illusory connections as a way of formulating a cause-and-effect relationship in the randomness surrounding them (Musch &amp; Ehrenberg, 2002; Heine et al, 2006; Blackmore &amp; Moore, 1994).When individuals feel they lack a personal sense of agency, they are likely to feel higher levels of anxiety from the vulnerability of losing this fundamental sense of stability (Whitson &amp; Galinsky, 2008). This vulnerability will cause individuals to seek connections through alternative, compensatory measures; they are likely to turn to external social constructions in an attempt to reestablish a sense of control over their environment (Kay et al, 2009). Individuals resort to alternative or familiar means of explanation as reassurance some external vehicle is responsible for random occurrences to regain structure in their connections within themselves and the external environment. It is hypothesized that a perceived sense of agency (control) influences an individual’s beliefs in compensatory channels: superstition, conspiracy, religion, an interventionist God, paranormal belief, social institutions (ex, government).
         Thus, the specific aim of this research project is to observe the effects of personal agency on pattern-perception and belief systems. It is predicted that a lack of personal agency in an individual will cause more pattern perception and an increase in beliefs associated with these compensatory channels. This study will use an experimental group that has been primed to feel a lack of agency with a “concept identification task” and a control group that has not (further explained in procedures). This between-groups design will allow for comparison between these two groups in variables testing for pattern perception and belief.
Contributors: Pamela Gant, Christopher Tuohino
Tags: CCT, Compensatory Control Theory, MMM, Meaning Maintenance Model, Self Control, Agency, Belief

Nostalgia for Unity: Compensatory Control and the Meaning Maintenance Model
Compensatory Control Theory (CCT) and the Meaning Maintenance Model (MMM) suggest pattern-seeking behavior in humans derives from an individual’s desire to explain articulate connections within themselves, between external experiences, and between the self and the external world (Heine, Proulx &amp; Vohs, 2006; Kay, Whitson, Gaucher &amp; Galinsky, 2009). Individuals seek fundamental stability in these connections as a way of understanding themselves and the external world (Heine, et al, 2006). Furthermore, humans have a unique inclination to perceive patterns to make sense of an otherwise stochastic environment and are susceptible to making illusory connections as a way of formulating a cause-and-effect relationship in the randomness surrounding them (Musch &amp; Ehrenberg, 2002; Heine et al, 2006; Blackmore &amp; Moore, 1994).When individuals feel they lack a personal sense of agency, they are likely to feel higher levels of anxiety from the vulnerability of losing this fundamental sense of stability (Whitson &amp; Galinsky, 2008). This vulnerability will cause individuals to seek connections through alternative, compensatory measures; they are likely to turn to external social constructions in an attempt to reestablish a sense of control over their environment (Kay et al, 2009). Individuals resort to alternative or familiar means of explanation as reassurance some external vehicle is responsible for random occurrences to regain structure in their connections within themselves and the external environment. It is hypothesized that a perceived sense of agency (control) influences an individual’s beliefs in compensatory channels: superstition, conspiracy, religion, an interventionist God, paranormal belief, social institutions (ex, government).
         Thus, the specific aim of this research project is to observe the effects of personal agency on pattern-perception and belief systems. It is predicted that a lack of personal agency in an individual will cause more pattern perception and an increase in beliefs associated with these compensatory channels. This study will use an experimental group that has been primed to feel a lack of agency with a “concept identification task” and a control group that has not (further explained in procedures). This between-groups design will allow for comparison between these two groups in variables testing for pattern perception and belief.
