Title: Positive affect and interpretation of familiarity: An investigation of déjà vu events
Description: This is the write-up of a research project that supported an honour’s research internship and two bachelor’s theses in the Psychology bachelor’s programme at the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen. It is not likely to be published because evidence for the most novel finding (a possible relationship between positive affect and déjà vu sensations) is tenuous. However, we think that the survey, a modern update of Heymans (1904), could also be of interest to researchers looking for evidence on déjà vu prevalence. This write-up contains our assessment of the novel (though tenuous effect) along with a descriptive write-up of our survey data. If you wish to refer to these data in a written report, please cite the URL for the Open Science project “Positive affect and interpretation of familiarity: An investigation of déjà vu events” curated by Candice C. Morey along with this unpublished manuscript.
Contributors: Candice Coker Morey, Anne Muth, Sophia Oelmann, Malte Bieler
Tags: deja vu, memory, familiarity, positive affect, cognitive style, prospective survey

Positive affect and interpretation of familiarity: An investigation of déjà vu events
This is the write-up of a research project that supported an honour’s research internship and two bachelor’s theses in the Psychology bachelor’s programme at the Rijksuniversiteit Groningen. It is not likely to be published because evidence for the most novel finding (a possible relationship between positive affect and déjà vu sensations) is tenuous. However, we think that the survey, a modern update of Heymans (1904), could also be of interest to researchers looking for evidence on déjà vu prevalence. This write-up contains our assessment of the novel (though tenuous effect) along with a descriptive write-up of our survey data. If you wish to refer to these data in a written report, please cite the URL for the Open Science project “Positive affect and interpretation of familiarity: An investigation of déjà vu events” curated by Candice C. Morey along with this unpublished manuscript.
