Title: Regret as Predictor of Consumer Outcomes
Description: Past research suggests that regret is distinguishable from other forms of negative affect, such as generic satisfaction or disappointment, and that these differentially predict consumer outcomes such as repeat purchase, brand defection, word of mouth, etc. The past demonstrations (e.g., Zeelenberg &amp; Pieters, 2004) have used cross-sectional retrospective recall methods, or scenario methods.Stronger evidence would come in the form of a prospective design, in which affect assessed at time 1 with regard to an important product would be used to predict consumer behavior several months later. The current project involves a longitudinal design with regret, disappointment, and dissatisfaction regarding an iPhone purchase assessed at the time of the iPhone 6 launch in fall 2014. The 2nd wave of data is to be collected in spring 2015, with the specific outcome measure being whether consumers (all current iPhone owners) have purchased the new model iPhone vs. defected to a competitor. The sample is a national panel purchased through Qualtrics.
Contributors: Neal Roese
Tags: 

Regret as Predictor of Consumer Outcomes
Past research suggests that regret is distinguishable from other forms of negative affect, such as generic satisfaction or disappointment, and that these differentially predict consumer outcomes such as repeat purchase, brand defection, word of mouth, etc. The past demonstrations (e.g., Zeelenberg &amp; Pieters, 2004) have used cross-sectional retrospective recall methods, or scenario methods.Stronger evidence would come in the form of a prospective design, in which affect assessed at time 1 with regard to an important product would be used to predict consumer behavior several months later. The current project involves a longitudinal design with regret, disappointment, and dissatisfaction regarding an iPhone purchase assessed at the time of the iPhone 6 launch in fall 2014. The 2nd wave of data is to be collected in spring 2015, with the specific outcome measure being whether consumers (all current iPhone owners) have purchased the new model iPhone vs. defected to a competitor. The sample is a national panel purchased through Qualtrics.
