Title: Relationship Responsiveness, Uncertainty, and Sexual Self-Disclosure: Implications for Sexual Satisfaction
Description: The purpose of this study is to identify possible mechanisms that are associated with the engagement in sexual self-disclosure. Specifically, we propose and test two mechanisms that may account for people’s willingness to disclose their sexual preferences to their partners—responsiveness and uncertainty. Although researchers have separately linked responsiveness and uncertainty to self-disclosure, researchers have not linked these three constructs together within the same model.  Further, sexual self-disclosure in particular has not been investigated as dependent upon responsiveness and uncertainty.  The present study seeks to investigate the ways in which responsiveness and uncertainty promote or inhibit couples' engagement in or avoidance of sexual self-disclosure, as well as the implications these variables have on sexual satisfaction.
Contributors: Randal D. Brown, Daniel Weigel
Tags: spsp2015, poster, sexuality, relationships, structural equation modeling, communication, sexual communication, sexual self-disclosure, self-disclosure, responsiveness, uncertainty, sexual satisfaction

Relationship Responsiveness, Uncertainty, and Sexual Self-Disclosure: Implications for Sexual Satisfaction
The purpose of this study is to identify possible mechanisms that are associated with the engagement in sexual self-disclosure. Specifically, we propose and test two mechanisms that may account for people’s willingness to disclose their sexual preferences to their partners—responsiveness and uncertainty. Although researchers have separately linked responsiveness and uncertainty to self-disclosure, researchers have not linked these three constructs together within the same model.  Further, sexual self-disclosure in particular has not been investigated as dependent upon responsiveness and uncertainty.  The present study seeks to investigate the ways in which responsiveness and uncertainty promote or inhibit couples' engagement in or avoidance of sexual self-disclosure, as well as the implications these variables have on sexual satisfaction.
