Title: Report on "Touchscreen use in early childhood"
Description: Touchscreens are increasingly prevalent, and anecdotal evidence suggests that young children are very drawn towards them. Yet there is little data regarding how infants use them and how use of such technologies might impact infant development. We addressed these questions through 3 complementary approaches. First, a brief online questionnaire  queried over 500 French parents of infants between 5 and 40 months of age on their young child's use of touchscreen technology.  Second, 12 infants aged 18 to 36 months and with varying degrees of previous experience with touchscreen technology were observed during a single play session in their homes. Finally, a  tablet was provided to the families of 9 infants aged 18 to 37 months, to be used over a one- or two-week period. Ecological measures of communication were gathered before and after this use. All of these data were interrogated through quantitative and qualitative analyses. Results suggest that, among respondent families, the use of touchscreens is widespread in early childhood, with clear developmental trends for certain types of interactive gestures. In most cases, even a brief exposure sufficed to enable infants to gain some autonomy in touchscreen use. Infants were interested in a range of activities, with longer exposures tending to result in shorter play time for familiar activities. No negative effects were observed after the short-term intervention. These results contribute to the investigation  of the effects of touchscreen use on early development and suggest  a number of considerations that should help improve the design of applications geared towards toddlers, particularly for scientific purposes.
Contributors: Alejandrina Cristia, Amanda Seidl
Tags: 

Report on "Touchscreen use in early childhood"
Touchscreens are increasingly prevalent, and anecdotal evidence suggests that young children are very drawn towards them. Yet there is little data regarding how infants use them and how use of such technologies might impact infant development. We addressed these questions through 3 complementary approaches. First, a brief online questionnaire  queried over 500 French parents of infants between 5 and 40 months of age on their young child's use of touchscreen technology.  Second, 12 infants aged 18 to 36 months and with varying degrees of previous experience with touchscreen technology were observed during a single play session in their homes. Finally, a  tablet was provided to the families of 9 infants aged 18 to 37 months, to be used over a one- or two-week period. Ecological measures of communication were gathered before and after this use. All of these data were interrogated through quantitative and qualitative analyses. Results suggest that, among respondent families, the use of touchscreens is widespread in early childhood, with clear developmental trends for certain types of interactive gestures. In most cases, even a brief exposure sufficed to enable infants to gain some autonomy in touchscreen use. Infants were interested in a range of activities, with longer exposures tending to result in shorter play time for familiar activities. No negative effects were observed after the short-term intervention. These results contribute to the investigation  of the effects of touchscreen use on early development and suggest  a number of considerations that should help improve the design of applications geared towards toddlers, particularly for scientific purposes.
