Title: Thematic Analysis of Jealousy in Polyamorous Relationships
Description: In this study we set out to conduct a thematic analysis of jealousy in polyamorous relationships, reporting results on a free response item which asked polyamorous participants to describe a time when they had experienced jealousy in a relationship. Participants were instructed that this can include the circumstances, reasons for experiencing jealousy, how they resolved it, etc. and to feel free to be candid and expressive, describing anything that may be relevant to their experience. Qualitative and quantitative methods will be used to provide (1) a thematic analysis of messages contained in individuals response to the question discussed above, and (2) descriptive statistics of demographics and other relevant incidence. Additionally, depending on the qualitative themes evident in the responses, quantitative measures and demographic items will be used to further illicit themes that emerge.
Contributors: Rhonda Nicole Balzarini, Taylor Kohut, Lorne Campbell, Bjarne Holmes
Tags: 

Thematic Analysis of Jealousy in Polyamorous Relationships
In this study we set out to conduct a thematic analysis of jealousy in polyamorous relationships, reporting results on a free response item which asked polyamorous participants to describe a time when they had experienced jealousy in a relationship. Participants were instructed that this can include the circumstances, reasons for experiencing jealousy, how they resolved it, etc. and to feel free to be candid and expressive, describing anything that may be relevant to their experience. Qualitative and quantitative methods will be used to provide (1) a thematic analysis of messages contained in individuals response to the question discussed above, and (2) descriptive statistics of demographics and other relevant incidence. Additionally, depending on the qualitative themes evident in the responses, quantitative measures and demographic items will be used to further illicit themes that emerge.
