Title: Trying something new: Frequency, cues, and challenges associated with the engagement of novel couple activities
Description: Novel couple activities are an important relationship maintenance tool; however, little research has examined the implementation of these activities. In two studies, we examined the frequency, cues, and challenges associated with novel couple activities with people in long-term close relationships. In Study 1, people (N = 355) answered questions about the frequency of novel couple activities, individual differences, and relationship quality. Overall, people reported that they only “sometimes” engage in novel couple activities, though, engagement was greater for people scoring higher on approach motivation. Greater engagement in novel activities was associated with increased relationship quality. Qualitative analyses were used in Study 2 to examine the types, cues, and challenges of novel activities. Participants (N = 174) listed a variety of novel activities (e.g., trying new restaurants, going on a trip), with boredom as a key cue and common challenges including: lack of time and resources, different interests, and embarrassment.
Contributors: Chantal Bacev-Giles
Tags: romantic relationships, novel couple activities, activities, challenges, cues, qualitative, relationships, relationship maintenance, appetitive, spsp2015

Trying something new: Frequency, cues, and challenges associated with the engagement of novel couple activities
Novel couple activities are an important relationship maintenance tool; however, little research has examined the implementation of these activities. In two studies, we examined the frequency, cues, and challenges associated with novel couple activities with people in long-term close relationships. In Study 1, people (N = 355) answered questions about the frequency of novel couple activities, individual differences, and relationship quality. Overall, people reported that they only “sometimes” engage in novel couple activities, though, engagement was greater for people scoring higher on approach motivation. Greater engagement in novel activities was associated with increased relationship quality. Qualitative analyses were used in Study 2 to examine the types, cues, and challenges of novel activities. Participants (N = 174) listed a variety of novel activities (e.g., trying new restaurants, going on a trip), with boredom as a key cue and common challenges including: lack of time and resources, different interests, and embarrassment.
