Title: Ergonomic Ankle Stabilizing
Description: The objective of this project is to create a device that will naturally minimize pain
to allow access to daily activities to achieve full rehabilitation rather than partial recovery combined with impaired activity. To achieve this goal, research (from various bias and non biased sources are required), manipulation, and prototyping is required to create an idealistic ankle stabilizing support structure. Based on data findings, it has been proven that a stirrup-style brace is most effective but is in great competition with basic ankle taping techniques. Braces and other immobilizers have been proven to reduce sports performance but also allow for the most fluid and natural gait form. This approach to ankle stabilizing greatly surpasses that of a lace up brace or basic compression wrap. In conclusion, the most effective daily use brace to aid in a full recovery is one in which relieves pressure from the posterior side while also adding minimal structure to allow support in daily ankle movement (plantar flexion and dorsi flexion).
Contributors: Abigail Forsyth
Tags: vprsf2015, poster

Ergonomic Ankle Stabilizing
The objective of this project is to create a device that will naturally minimize pain
to allow access to daily activities to achieve full rehabilitation rather than partial recovery combined with impaired activity. To achieve this goal, research (from various bias and non biased sources are required), manipulation, and prototyping is required to create an idealistic ankle stabilizing support structure. Based on data findings, it has been proven that a stirrup-style brace is most effective but is in great competition with basic ankle taping techniques. Braces and other immobilizers have been proven to reduce sports performance but also allow for the most fluid and natural gait form. This approach to ankle stabilizing greatly surpasses that of a lace up brace or basic compression wrap. In conclusion, the most effective daily use brace to aid in a full recovery is one in which relieves pressure from the posterior side while also adding minimal structure to allow support in daily ankle movement (plantar flexion and dorsi flexion).
