Title: Is the assessment of recognition memory useful in Alzheimer's Disease? Implications for clinical practice
Description: With this work we will try to demonstrate that a recognition task will not provide additional information if recall was unsuccessful after cued recall using a verbal memory assessment task. To this end, we will manipulate the way of presenting the material in the study phase to ensure increasing encoding situations. Providing additional knowledge about the theoretical basis of recognition memory is not one of our goals. We will try to provide empirical data about the utility of a diagnosis tool used to assess memory impairments in patients with AD. The same memory task will be presented in three different ways. The task contains 16 unrelated words. Group 1 will learn the words with individual semantic cues for each item both during encoding and during immediate recall. Group 2 will learn the words with semantic encodng but not during immediate recall. Group 3 will learn the words without semantic cues. After delayed recall, all the participants will be asked to recognized which words were studied when presented individually along with 24 foils. Sixteen of these foils will be related with the 16 target items, whereas 8 foils will be unrelated. We expect that different patterns of encoding will show different benefits of recognition. We expect that deep (semantic) encoding will not increase recognition, meaning that the information that is not recalled with semantic cues will not be correctly recognized or, at least, not more than at chance level.
Contributors: Javier Oltra-Cucarella
Tags: neuropsychology, verbal memory, assessment, cognition, Alzheimers Disease

Is the assessment of recognition memory useful in Alzheimer's Disease? Implications for clinical practice
With this work we will try to demonstrate that a recognition task will not provide additional information if recall was unsuccessful after cued recall using a verbal memory assessment task. To this end, we will manipulate the way of presenting the material in the study phase to ensure increasing encoding situations. Providing additional knowledge about the theoretical basis of recognition memory is not one of our goals. We will try to provide empirical data about the utility of a diagnosis tool used to assess memory impairments in patients with AD. The same memory task will be presented in three different ways. The task contains 16 unrelated words. Group 1 will learn the words with individual semantic cues for each item both during encoding and during immediate recall. Group 2 will learn the words with semantic encodng but not during immediate recall. Group 3 will learn the words without semantic cues. After delayed recall, all the participants will be asked to recognized which words were studied when presented individually along with 24 foils. Sixteen of these foils will be related with the 16 target items, whereas 8 foils will be unrelated. We expect that different patterns of encoding will show different benefits of recognition. We expect that deep (semantic) encoding will not increase recognition, meaning that the information that is not recalled with semantic cues will not be correctly recognized or, at least, not more than at chance level.
