Title: Protist Diversity and Abundance in the Rivanna Watershed among the Eastern Foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia
Description: This project aims to measure protist diversity and abundance in the Rivanna watershed.  This watershed provides drinking water and recreation to the City of Charlottesville and surrounding Albemarle County.  It is home to wildlife and offers breathtaking scenery.  It is also used for waste treatment and suffers from human impacts.  Streamwatch, a local water monitoring organization, measures water quality and ecosystem health mainly by sampling bacteria and benthic macroinvertebrates.  Over a decade of their reporting shows stably poor conditions.  Protists represent an important part of the food chain and nutrient cycles in aquatic ecosystems.  We hypothesize that protist populations are tied to water quality and overall health of the stream ecosystem, and we predict that high levels of protist diversity and moderate levels of protist abundance will be associated with better stream conditions.
Contributors: Anne Allison, Kelley Barker, Katelyn Deane, Jamie Ewing, Maya Fraser-Butler, Stephen Hazen, Anne Hilton, Rachel Liptrap, Eva Ng, Kevin Parker, Vanessa Priarone, Kathryn Prince, Jacob Simons, Candice Tomlinson, Eric Young
Tags: 

Protist Diversity and Abundance in the Rivanna Watershed among the Eastern Foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia
This project aims to measure protist diversity and abundance in the Rivanna watershed.  This watershed provides drinking water and recreation to the City of Charlottesville and surrounding Albemarle County.  It is home to wildlife and offers breathtaking scenery.  It is also used for waste treatment and suffers from human impacts.  Streamwatch, a local water monitoring organization, measures water quality and ecosystem health mainly by sampling bacteria and benthic macroinvertebrates.  Over a decade of their reporting shows stably poor conditions.  Protists represent an important part of the food chain and nutrient cycles in aquatic ecosystems.  We hypothesize that protist populations are tied to water quality and overall health of the stream ecosystem, and we predict that high levels of protist diversity and moderate levels of protist abundance will be associated with better stream conditions.
