Title: Responses to vocalizations in the human newborn brain
Description: In the adult brain, speech can recruit a brain network that is overlapping with, but not identical to, that involved in perceiving non-linguistic vocalizations. Using the same stimuli that had been presented to human 4-month-olds and adults, as well as adult macaques, we sought to shed light on the cortical networks engaged when processing diverse vocalization types in human newborns. Near Infrared Spectroscopy was used to register the response of 40 newborns' temporal regions when stimulated with speech, human and macaque emotional vocalizations, as well as auditory controls where the formant structure was destroyed but the long-term spectrum was retained. Left fronto-temporal and parietal regions were significantly activated in the comparison of stimulation versus rest, with unclear selectivity in cortical activation. These results for the newborn brain are qualitatively and quantitatively compared with previous work on newborns, older human infants,  adult humans, and adult macaques reported in previous work.
Contributors: Alejandrina Cristia, Yasuyo MINAGAWA, Emmanuel Dupoux
Tags: 

Responses to vocalizations in the human newborn brain
In the adult brain, speech can recruit a brain network that is overlapping with, but not identical to, that involved in perceiving non-linguistic vocalizations. Using the same stimuli that had been presented to human 4-month-olds and adults, as well as adult macaques, we sought to shed light on the cortical networks engaged when processing diverse vocalization types in human newborns. Near Infrared Spectroscopy was used to register the response of 40 newborns' temporal regions when stimulated with speech, human and macaque emotional vocalizations, as well as auditory controls where the formant structure was destroyed but the long-term spectrum was retained. Left fronto-temporal and parietal regions were significantly activated in the comparison of stimulation versus rest, with unclear selectivity in cortical activation. These results for the newborn brain are qualitatively and quantitatively compared with previous work on newborns, older human infants,  adult humans, and adult macaques reported in previous work.
